# Beginner-friendly guide to RESTAPI Testing

VuePress is composed of two parts: a [minimalistic static site generator](https://github.com/vuejs/vuepress/tree/master/packages/%40vuepress/core) with a Vue-powered [theming system](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/) and [Plugin API](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/plugin/), and a [default theme](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/default-theme-config.html) optimized for writing technical documentation. It was created to support the documentation needs of Vue's own sub projects.

Each page generated by VuePress has its own pre-rendered static HTML, providing great loading performance and is SEO-friendly. Once the page is loaded, however, Vue takes over the static content and turns it into a full Single-Page Application (SPA). Additional pages are fetched on demand as the user navigates around the site.

## Day 1 - The Basic Concepts

Do you have any idea what to do when someone asks you to test an API? What questions to ask to help you identify the testing scope? What tools to use? How to write an automation test? What evidence shows that the test has been passed?
In this tutorial, we will cover the basics about REST API and everything you need to know to get started.
You'll find a lot of new words in your journey, don't worry about it, it's going to take some time until it starts to sink in, keep practice, have patience, you'll learn along the way.

We also strongly recommend that you read the reference in this tutorial, it will help you learn better.
This Testing Guide gives you an overall view of how to start, and how everything hangs together. It helps you learn step-by-step, but you can skip steps if you already learn the knowledge somewhere else.

Now: Where do you begin?

You could start by learning The Basic Concepts about ReST API first.

Things like:
REST or RESTful APIs
Web service
HTTP
JSON
URIs
Let's get started with the first step.

What is an API?

Technically API stands for Application Programming Interface. API allows applications to communicate to each other. Companies built their API for external customers or internal use.
Chris Hoffman provides an interesting metaphor in What is an API, that you can think of an API like a menu in a restaurant. You can specify what menu items you want without any need to know exactly how the restaurant prepares the food.
Here's a couple of references that would help you understand the API concept better.
API vs Web Service provides a clear idea to differentiate the API and Web Service
What APIs Are And Why They're Important - Brian Proffitt
What is REST API and RESTful?
You learned API now, but you also heard of REST API. Are they the same?
REST is a type of API. Not all APIs are REST, but all REST API are APIs.

In this tutorial, we only talk about REST API.

REST stands for "Representational State Transfer". In "REST API Design Rulebook", the author explains further:
A Web API is the face of a web service, directly listening and responding to client requests.
A Web API conforming to the REST architectural style is a REST API
Having a REST API makes a web service “RESTful.”
This is a quick video to cover this concept from Todd Fredrich.
And another simple reading from MuleSoft about RESTful API
While REST can be used over nearly any protocol, as API vs Web Service mentioned: "REST APIs are a standardized architecture for building web APIs using HTTP methods."

HTTP Methods
If you're testing a REST API, you need to understand the basic idea of HTTP Methods. API vs Web Service introduced two:
GET
POST
We using Get request to get data and using Post request to create data. We will add one more method you will need:
PUT
Put can also be used to create data. The difference between PUT and POST is, POST is usually used to create a resource even you don't know the specific URL, while PUT is usually used to overwrite a resource for an update, or created if it doesn't exist.

For example, you can use a POST request to create a customer without specifying the customer Id, and the POST request will generate a new customer with customer Id. And you can use a PUT request to update a specified customer's address, and it will create an address if the customer doesn't have one.

Here's a good read to explain the difference between those two.
URIs

Let me add a little extra here, when we using HTTP to visit a website, we will need an URL, such as http://www.google.com

And for a REST API, you will need something similar, a URI.

URL is one type of URI. You can find the difference between two in here from Milecia McG

This is a dummy API I found online can help you understand REST API more visually:
https://reqres.in/
The second API in the list will return you a single user with user id 2, and you can get the API response by directly put the URI into a web browser.
https://reqres.in/api/users/2
You probably will hear a term called endpoint as well when we talked about REST API. The endpoint indicates how you access the resources. An endpoint is part of the URI. In the above example, the endpoint would be "/api/users/2"
You can have a read about endpoint in this document from Tom Johnson.
JSON
The last basic idea you need to know is JSON.

JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is a lightweight data-interchange format. It's easy for humans to read and write.

The REST architecture allows API providers to deliver data in multiple formats such as XML, HTML, and JSON. And JSON is one of the most popular format API using.

Have a bit read about SOAP vs REST vs JSON comparison from Anna Monus to understand REST and JSON better.

Wrap up

Let's do a quick wrap up:
Now you should already have a better understanding of these basic concepts: APIs, REST, HTTP, URIs, JSON.
If you read all the recommended reading, you should have a good idea around what a REST API looks like.
And if you had a look at the dummy API we found, you should able to send an API request and get a response from https://reqres.in/api/users/2 through a web browser.
What's next
In our next tutorial, we will show you how to use a tool called Postman to test a simple API.

Further reading

If you're interested in more knowledge around APIs, here are few blogs that could be used as a reference when you study more by yourself:

How to design a REST API - Antoine Chantalou, Benoit Lafontaine, Mohamed Kissa, Florent Jaby, Jérémy Buisson, Augustin Grimprel, Nicolas Laurent

API, Web Services & Microservices Testing Pathway - Katrina Clokie

### Day 2 - Using Postman

Now you already have an idea about what is the RESTful API, and how it looks like.

So, what's next?

How we can start to test it? And what we should test?

You can start by learning how to use Postman to do some manual testing first.

What is Postman

Postman is one of the most popular tools used in API testing. It is a powerful tool that allows you to create tests easily, store information in different environments, and store data for use in other tests.

For a beginner who has no experience, the user interface of the Postman matches the basic concepts we introduced here. Hopefully using Postman is quite straiaght forward for you.

Download the Postman

Let's download a Postman and install it first, you can use it in chrome or as an individual application.
Download the app
Adding postman as a chrome extension
After installing the extension or app and launch postman, it will ask you to sign up for free. It allows you to share your collections, sync data across different devices, and back up your data.

You can choose to skip this step for now.

Have another look at API

Now let's have a look at the API again.

https://reqres.in/

In here, we have 5 types of request: GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE

We will use Postman to create some examples for GET, POST, and PUT, which will be the most commonly used method.

We will use the following APIs, hopefully, you already go through these APIs and have a bit understanding around it:
GET SINGLE USER
POST CREATE
PUT UPDATE
Create A New Request

Now let's try to create a new API request.

We will need to create a folder to store all the tests, let's use "Reqres.in" as the folder name, and using "GET SINGLE USER" for Request name for our first API test.

This post will show you how to use Postman to cover the basic concepts we introduced in the last tutorial:
HTTP
JSON
URIs
Let's have a look at a GET request:

In the grey area, the first dropdown box is the HTTP Request method, and by default, it's a "GET" request.

Next to it is where to put the URL of an API.

For this GET request, we don't need anything in the request Body.

After putting the URL "https://reqres.in/api/users/2" in the URL input box, try to click the "Send" button, you will get the response from Postman.

This is how to get an API response in your first request.

Now, where's the testing part? Do we need to validate anything?

Yes. You can easily validate a few things:
HTTP Response Status Code
Response
JSON Body
HTTP response status codes can indicate whether a specific HTTP request has successfully completed. You can find details in another REST API Tutorial

And you can also validate if the response is in a specific format or not, such as JSON.

You can also validate if the JSON body includes specific fields or values.

Let's have a look at Status Code first.

Click the "Tests" tab, and write the first test here to verify that you get a 200 status code for response:

1
2
3
4
// example using pm.response.to.have
pm.test("response is ok", function () {
pm.response.to.have.status(200);
});

Click the "Send" button again, as you can see, other than the response, there is a test result display in the "Test Results" tab:

If you update the status code in Tests to "201", and click the "Send" button again, the test will fail.

If you're interested to learn more, you can always find detailed documentation about how to create tests from Postman in here.

Create a POST request

Now we write a simple test to cover the GET request, let's have a look at the POST request.

Have a look at the https://reqres.in/

If you click the GET - SINGLE USER API, it will provide a URI.

If you click the POST - CREATE API, it will provide a JSON body as well as a URI.

So when we create the request in Postman, we need to include the JSON body as well.

Now if you click the "Send" button, you will get a response with Status Code 201 Created, which means a new resource has been created. And here, we created a new user.

Now we want to write a test to validate both Status Code return as 201, and the new user has the correct name or job as we put into the request JSON body.

// example using pm.response.to.have
pm.test("response is ok", function () {
// assert that the status code is 201
pm.response.to.have.status(201);
});

// example using pm.expect()
pm.test("response include job of new created user as Tester", function () {
//put response Body into jsonData
var jsonData = pm.response.json();
// assert that the response has job field as Tester
pm.expect(jsonData.job).to.eql("Tester");
});

Try to run it again with the tests we just added.

Wrap up

Now let's do a quick wrap up:
You learned why you want to use Postman.
You learned how to create a GET and POST request and get the response.
You learned how to create a JSON body in the request.
You learned how to write a simple test to validate the status code and JSON body.
You might ask, how about PUT request?

Well, I want to leave the PUT request to you and do some practice by yourself.

Further Reading and Practice

You will never learn everything from reading one blog, or one book, or one piece of code. We won't able to cover everything here. The purpose of this tutorial is to get you started.

We will provide you some extra reading, or practice, so you can carry on with your learning after this.

We strongly recommend that you start to build the habit of reading documentations. Postman has its own documentation and will cover all the topics you need to use Postman in your work environment, or for self-study.

You can find the Postman documentation here.

If you want to do some practice about create API requests, write tests using Postman, you can go through all the API list in https://reqres.in/ and try it out.

Postman Collection File

Postman allows you to export the test suite and share it with others.

Here are a few API tests I created for GET, POST, and PUT.

You can download and import to Postman and have a look.

What's Next

In the next tutorial, we will start to talk about some basic programming concepts, and prepare you to write some automation using rest-assured.

### Day 3 - Construct A Request

Now we should already familiar with how to write tests for APIs with GET requests.

The difference between POST and GET request, is you will have a JSON body in the POST request, while GET doesn't.

And one of the reason I choose groovy in this tutorial is groovy is naturally good at process JSON.

In this tutorial, I will show you three ways to create a JSON body in the API request.

Define the JSON body as a String

Define the JSON body as a Map

Using JsonBuilder

Now let's write another tests for the POST request.

Wrap up:

You've learned how to construct a JSON request body use String
You've learned how to construct a JSON request body use Map
You've learned how to construct a JSON request body use JsonBuilder
You've write a first test for a POST request

### Day 4 - Thinking Like A Programmer

The key to success these days is the ability to respond to changes quickly.

The tester role has been re-defining and evolving because of all the changes, such as Agile, DevOps, product management, envolving architecture such as microservices, etc.

To deliver value faster to the customer, we need the capability to shift our work to production quickly.

Writing automation tests and integrated with a deployment pipeline becoming one of the hottest skills required for the testers today.

APIs consumed by many different consumers, and we can't manually test all of them. Automation becomes mandatory.

How we can automate API tests?

How to turn what we've learned so far into lines of codes?

Again, in this tutorial, you'll hear a lot of new words. Remember, be pertinent, be kind to yourself, and keep practice.

Learning how to write a program is like learning to speak a new language. The language that the machine could understand.

You learn through reading books, reading other people's code, and practicing to write code yourself.

This guide is aiming to give you an idea to start.

Let's have a look at Postman again.

In the last tutorial, we talked about Postman is powerful, and you can write tests using it.

Postman tests are written in JavaScript.

Now you see, you already write code without realizing it.

At a certain point, you will need to do some learning to gain the basic concepts of programming.

We won't able to give you a full introduction to the programming languages. We will only cover the concepts we needed in this tutorial, so some extra reading and learning are highly recommended.

Now, the first two basic concepts we introduce here are:
Variables
Strings
Let's have a look at them one by one.

Variables

Variables are used to store information in a computer program. They provide a way of labeling data with a descriptive name.

You can define a variable like this:

String userName = "Today is lovely"

In this piece of code, "String" is the data type, and "userName" is the descriptive name for this variable. And above code give the variable "userName" a value "Today is lovely".

In programming languages, there are different data types.

You can read more about data types:
Data types in Java
Groovy data types
JavaScript data types
Strings

A string is one of the most commonly used data types. In JavaScript, Groovy, and Java, a string is surrounded by quotes.

Since we're going to use Groovy in the rest of this tutorial, when we explain data types or other coding concepts, it will be in Groovy.

In the example above, we defined a String with the name "userName", and the value as "Today is lovely".

Further learning

To write proper automation tests, programming is an essential skill that can not be skipped.

You don't need to be an expert in coding, but you do need to understand the terminologies and the basic rules.

We recommend a few programming online courses here, which will help you to get a better idea:
Java Basic Course from Richard Bradshaw
Codecademy
Want to learn Java quickly? Burn all your Java tutorial books
You can go through some of these to further your learning at your own pace.

Few other concepts

Now let's have a look at a few other concepts you also need to know to get your code running and do some testing.
Compiler
Gradle
Git
Libraries
Compiler

When we write code, we normally using high-level programming languages, such as Java, JavaScript, Groovy, Python, etc. These languages are human-readable language.

When we want to execute the code written by high-level programming languages, we need something to help us translate the human-readable code to executable machine code.

That's why we need a compiler.

You can read more about compiler in here:
Introduction to a compiler
The definition and the purpose of a compiler
Compiling & running a simple program
Gradle

Gradle is a build tool, which automated the build process.

It can help you manage dependencies, compile source code, package the binary code, run the tests, and publish artifacts.

We will need to use Gradle to build our tests as well.

You can read more about Gradle in here:
What is Gradle?
What is a build tool?
Building a Java App with Gradle
Git

Long story short, Git is a version control system that makes it easier to track changes.

If you and your team members are writing automation tests, you will need Git to help the team to track the changes and manage the conflicts.

Normally we started by grabbing a remote repository and put what's in it onto your machine.

git clone

This remote repository might include multiple branches, which used to develop different features without impact each other.

The default branch called the "master" branch, which is usually what we deployed on production and used by the customers.

You can switch branches on your machine depends on which features you're working on.

git checkout your-branch-name

Remember, if you make changes, all the changes will be just on your machine, not the remote repository.

After making the changes on your machine, you can check what are they:

git status

git diff

You can also push your changes to the remote repository by using these commands:

git add

git commit

git push

Here is a more detailed explanation of why you need three commands to push to the remote repository.

And you can also learn a bit more about why we need multiple branches, and how to merge them back to "master" branch in here:
Learn git concepts, not commands
Don't mess with the Master
If you already have some knowledge about git and want to learn more git commands, you can find a couple of more references here:
Git Cheat Sheet
Pro Git book
Libraries

One last concept you need to know is libraries.

When we write tests, we only write the code to do the testing.

But we will also need some code to help us manage the tests, run the tests, do the validations, and generate the test reports.

We don't need to write our own code to do all of these, instead, we use libraries.

In the API testing, if you use Java to write the tests, the most commonly used libraries are:
JUnit
Rest-Assured
We will discuss libraries more in the next tutorial.

Wrap up

Now, we've learned quite a few new concepts in this tutorial.

You heard a lot of new concepts and will need some time to digest them.

Take your time, and be patient.

If you don't fully understand all of these, it's okay, you will understand a bit more when we move to the next tutorial.

Let's do a quick wrap up.
You learned the basic programming concepts, such as Variables, String.
You learned the concepts of the compiler and build tool.
You learned what is Gradle and why we use it.
You learned the basic command of Git.
You learned why we need libraries.
What's next

We included most of the recommended reading in each section.

If you still found some concepts that are not clear, you can google some more.

Few websites are really helpful:
Stackoverflow
The official website for Gradle and Git.
Online training website for learning how to program (You can choose the language you like to learn)
In the next tutorial, we will start to use Git to create your first local repository and a new branch.

### Day 5 - Create Your First Repository

You've learned a couple of basic concepts about programming, compiler, build tool, and git.

Now let's put some of the previous learning into practice.

In this tutorial, we will create a repository on your machine, help you create a new branch for you to working on.

First, we need a tool that will allow us to use git commands.

If you're using windows, you can download Git Bash

If you're using Mac, you can try to run git from the Terminal

\$ git --version

If you don't have it installed already, it will prompt you to install it.

We will use Git Bash as an example in this tutorial as I using a windows machine.

Now let's quickly review the concepts from the last tutorial first.
Gradle is a build tool that helps you turn your code into executable machine code.
Git is a version control system that makes it easier to track changes.
We can use git clone command grab a remote repository and put what's in it onto your machine.
We can use git checkout your-branch-name command to switch from the master branch to your feature branch.
We can use git status or git diff to check any changes you made.
We can use git add, git commit, and git push commands to push your changes from your machine to the remote repository.
Okay, let's practice.

I created a project in GitHub and put a few configuration files in it.

GitHub is not Git. GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that allows you to manage Git repository.

There are other similar host services, such as BitBucket.

In this tutorial, we will show you:
How to create a GitHub account
How to create a project
How to clone the project from remote GitHub repository
How to create a new branch
How to push the changes on your local machine back to the remote GitHub repository
Create a GitHub account

You can go to https://github.com/ to sign up for a new account if you don't have one.

After you log in with the newly created account, you will see the landing page looks like this:

Fork a Project

GitHub will help you manage your project.

Let's start to create a new project.

Click "Start a project" button, and filling the details in the following page:

You can choose to make your project public or private.

Now you created an empty project.

Clone the Project

To work on your project on your machine, you need to clone it first

Now open your GitBash if you're using windows, and a terminal if you're using Mac or Linux.

Now let's try to use the first git command.

In the following command, you will clone one of my demo projects. Replace the https address from this project to your own project.

\$ git clone https://github.com/kaxiu008/api-restassured-demo.git

Now you clone the first project on your local machine.

Create your project structure (take a reference of how sprint tutorial wrote) (https://spring.io/guides/gs/maven/)

Adding Gradle. file

Wrap Up

What's Next

### Day 6 - Write your first test

Now you already have your first repo, and create a new branch.

So, what's next?

Let's working on this.

Here's the code structure I want you to create:

It's a conventional structure.

As for programming language, this time we will using groovy, I like the feature that groovy can easily handle JSON.

Don't worry that if you haven't used groovy before. You need to get used to see the code, and you'll learn the details later.

We will start to write our first test in xx.groovy file:

Import

Define Junit class which is a test suite

Define String

Define a test

What we're testing

Now you should have a piece of code looks like this:

Now let's compile and build it using Gradle.

Now let's run the test

Let's change it a little bit to make the test failed.

Now try to write few more tests for different API end points:

Wrap up:

You've learned how to write define your first test
You've learned how to write assertions to decide if your test passed or failed
You've learned how to use Gradle to build your test
You've learned how to use Gradle to run your test

This is an example repo I created, you can downloaded and
