# Introduction

In this section, I want to include following:

1. Cypress series
2. Rest-assured series
3. How to write developer standards automation tests
4. How to test api series
5. Changes in the testing community and how you can cope with it
6. How to find your career path as a tester in DevOps
7. Facilitation tools

Few thinking from watch Katrina's video

1. You test not to make people feels bad, you test to help them build good quality, same as you design tests in school to help children to learn. Start to thinking about qualiy at the very beginning. even I worked as a test lead 10 years ago in a telecome company, I always start the project at the same time with devleopment team, and show them how we gonna test it.

2. The whole world is envoving, and testing in envolving in the same way. For the people doesn't understand what testing actually is, this envolving process is not

3. Team is to make our advantages effective, and our disadvantage inrelavent, but there are some key elements of a right people that is essential, such as growth mindset, humidity, focus on the outcome, and not care too much about promoting themselves.

4. Agile and devops are tools, you can apply them in any orgnization where is fit. So asking what is the goal, what is the outcome we want to achieve, what is the problem you're trying to solve, what is the customer value and business value we are trying to provide, and how agile and devops can help you answer those questions.

5. diversity is a safty net for me.

6. Trust and respect needs to be built first befor a team can be high-performing. If a leader even a techinical leader can't build the trust and respect within the team, then regardless how techinical they are, the team won't performing in a sustainable way.

7. close to the reality, check your view - other's view - reality

8. put yourself in a high-performing area, actively work with your manager to plan your career, explore different opportunities to find out what you want, and learn as much as you could, write about it, talk to people to valid your thinking.

9. Quality and product success is not just come from testing, it comes from development, design, even business goal. To fix testing, we need also fix the whole thing. Also along the way, I found my passion is around people, and how to help them to be successful as they can be. So enventually I moved into a role have both people managerment and engieering management lens.

10. Developers has one skills current tester needs, coding skills. But testing requires a quite different skillsets and mentality compares to be a developer. So if a developer is geneuning love about write code and solve puzzles, it will be a disapointment when they swtich to tester. So coding is like solve puzzles, and testing is like a detective. Both roles has overlap in coding, but the other aspects are very different and has very different mental model.

11. I don't belive in hierarchy myself. I think it's about influence. If we are focusing on finish a task called "testing" by ourselves (traditionally is to compre the product with a document), and not communicate and involving people as testing actually requires, then we just did a job and not have much influence in the quality of a product. It's like you are a teacher, and you go to school and teach a kid in the day time, and never talk to the parents. But you need to. So when you start to involve develoeprs, even architects, product owners to get them understand how to build quality product, you start to build influence as well. You need to geninuely care about the quality of the product, not just finish a task and get paid. That's how you start to gain people's respect and build influence.

12. There is a lot of ego in the digital world. I was underprsentted, I don't impress peope when we first met. It's not about I have a opionion and people needs to hear it. It's still about what's the outcome, what's the problem we're solving for the customer and the orgnization. But for high level manager has traditional impression of what testing is, the conversation is hard because they want to talk about testing, and I ask about business goal, customers, development practice, etc. So I guess I need to practice my elevator pitch. :p

13. Disruptive is the new norm.

14. There is no silver bullet. As a manager, don't seeking it. Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the wise; seek what they sought.

VuePress is composed of two parts: a [minimalistic static site generator](https://github.com/vuejs/vuepress/tree/master/packages/%40vuepress/core) with a Vue-powered [theming system](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/) and [Plugin API](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/plugin/), and a [default theme](https://v1.vuepress.vuejs.org/theme/default-theme-config.html) optimized for writing technical documentation. It was created to support the documentation needs of Vue's own sub projects.

Each page generated by VuePress has its own pre-rendered static HTML, providing great loading performance and is SEO-friendly. Once the page is loaded, however, Vue takes over the static content and turns it into a full Single-Page Application (SPA). Additional pages are fetched on demand as the user navigates around the site.

<demo-1/>
<OtherComponent/>
<Foo-Bar/>
